Welcome back.
In this video you're going to
learn about a special type of
neural network known as
the Siamese network.
It is a neural network made up
of two identical neural networks
which are merged at the end.
This type of architecture has
many applications and NLP.
And in this video, you'll see the
different examples where you can use it.
Consider the following question.
How old are you?
And what is your age?
You can see that these questions
don't have any words in common.
However, they both mean the same thing.
On the other hand,
if you were to look at the following
questions, where are you from?
And where are you going?
You can see that the first
three words are the same.
However, the last word completely
changes the meaning of each question.
This example shows that comparing meaning
is not as simple as just comparing words.
Coming up, you're going to see
how you can use Siamese networks
to compare the meaning of word sequences,
and
identify question duplicates,
which is a very important NLP application
at the core of platforms like
Stack Overflow or Quora.
Before these platforms allow you to post
a new question, they want to be sure that
your question hasn't already
been posted by somebody else.
Now take this sentence,
I'm happy because I'm learning, and
consider it in the context of sentiment
analysis and binary classification.
Now in training a classification
algorithm, you discover what features
give the statement a positive or
negative sentiment.
With Siamese networks you'll be aiming to
identify what's makes two input similar,
and what makes them different.
Take a look at these two questions.
What is your age?
And how old are you?
When you build a Siamese model, you're
trying to identify the difference or
the similarity between
these two questions.
You do this by computing
a single similarity score,
representing the relationship
between the two questions.
And based on that score when
compared against a threshold,
you can predict whether these
two are the same or different.
Siamese networks have many applications
in NLP, you can use them to authenticate
handwritten checks by determining whether
two signatures are the same or not.
You can use them to identify question
duplicates on platforms like Quora or
Stack Overflow.
And you can use them in
search engine queries
to predict whether a new query is similar
to the one that was already executed.
These are just a few examples, but
there are many more applications
of Siamese networks in NLP.
You can use Siamese networks in
many types of NLP applications.
In the next video,
I'll walk you through the architecture
that is used in this type of model.
And I'll show you how you
can use it in a text.
I'll see you in the next video.